[Doc]{Kommander] Foundational Governance Pipeline (#3516)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/1.4/projects/project-deployments/index.md

navigationTitle: Project Deployments
title: Project Deployments
menuWeight: 1
excerpt: Use Project Deployments to manage GitOps based Continuous Deployments.
---

> Kommander Projects are configured with GitOps based Continuous Deployments for federation of your Applications to associated clusters of the project. This is backed by Dispatch which enables software and applications to be continuously deployed (CD) using GitOps processes. GitOps enables the application to be deployed as per a manifest that is stored in a Git repository. This ensures that the application deployment can be automated, audited and declaratively deployed to the infrastructure.

Reviewer: Do you have to use CD?  The "can be"->"are" change here suggests that CD is the only way "Kommander Projects are configured".

Author: Good point.

## Continuous Deployments

> After enabling Dispatch and [configuring your project and its clusters](../), navigate to the **Continuous Deployment (CD)** tab under your Project. Here you create a GitOps source which is an SCM repository hosting the application definition. D2IQ recommends you create a secret first then create a GitOps source accessed by the secret:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After enabling Dispatch and [configuring your project and its clusters](../), navigate to the **Continuous Deployment (CD)** tab under your Project. Here you create a GitOps source which is an SCM repository hosting the application definition. D2IQ recommends that you create a secret first then create a GitOps source accessed by the secret:
```

### Creating GitOps Source

After the secret is created, you can view it in the `Secrets` tab. Configure the GitOps source accessed by this secret:

![Create GitOps Source](/dkp/kommander/1.4/img/project-cd-gitops-source-create.png)

While the `username` and `password` are mandatory fields, SCM details default to `github` if unspecified. It takes a few seconds for the GitOps Source to be reconciled and the manifests from the SCM repository at the given path to be federated to attached clusters. After the sync is complete, manifests from GitOps source are created in attached clusters.

After the manifests are federated, there are various commands that can be executed from the CLI to check the federation status.

> On the manager cluster, check for your `FederatedKustomization` and `FederatedGitRepository` resources. The `status` field reflects the propagation of manifests:

Reviewer: Is 'manager cluster' the right term of art here?  I would have though "management cluster" was the right one. 

```suggestion
On the management cluster, check for your `FederatedKustomization` and `FederatedGitRepository` resources. The `status` field reflects the propagation of manifests:
```

...
```

> If there are errors in federation, those events are populated in the status field of `FederatedKustomization` and or `FederatedGitRepository` resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are errors in federation, those events are populated in the status field of the `FederatedKustomization` and or `FederatedGitRepository` resources.
```

### Suspending GitOps Source

> Some times in production, you want to suspend the auto sync between the GitOps repository and the associated clusters. This live debugging is necessary to resolve an incident in the minimum amount of time without the burden of pull request based workflows. Select **Suspend** to manually suspend the GitOps reconciliation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some times in production, you may want to suspend the auto sync between the GitOps repository and the associated clusters. This 'live debugging' technique may be necessary to resolve an incident in the minimum amount of time without the burden of pull request based workflows. Select **Suspend** to manually suspend the GitOps reconciliation:
```

![Suspend GitOps Source Sync](/dkp/kommander/1.4/img/project-cd-gitops-source-sync-suspend.png)

This lets you use kubectl, helm or another tool to resolve the issue. After the issue is resolved select **Resume** to sync the updated contents of GitOps source to associated clusters:

![Resume GitOps Source Sync](/dkp/kommander/1.4/img/project-cd-gitops-source-sync-resume.png)

Similar to **Suspend/Resume**, you can use the **Delete** action to remove the GitOps source. Removing the GitOps source results in removal of all the manifests applied from the GitOps source.

You can have more than one GitOps Source in your Project to deploy manifests from various sources.

## Troubleshooting

- Events related to federation are stored in respective `FederatedGitRepository` and or `FederatedKustomization` resources.
- View the events and or logs for `deployments/dispatch-repository-controller` in dispatch namespace in case there are any unexpected errors.

> - There are other [flux controller related components](https://toolkit.fluxcd.io/components/) that get deployed for successful rollout of GitOps manifests that are managed by Dispatch repository controller. Do not be concerned if you see these components running in the project namespace.

Reviewer: How about this instead?

```suggestion
- Enabling the Dispatch repository controller for your project namespace will cause a number of  [related Flux controller components](https://toolkit.fluxcd.io/components/) to be deployed into thenamespace.  These are necessary for the proper operation of the repository controller and should not be removed.
```

![Resume GitOps Source Sync](/dkp/kommander/1.4/img/project-cd-gitops-source-sync-resume.png)

Similar to **Suspend/Resume**, you can use the **Delete** action to remove the GitOps source. Removing the GitOps source results in removal of all the manifests applied from the GitOps source.

You can have more than one GitOps Source in your Project to deploy manifests from various sources.

## Troubleshooting

- Events related to federation are stored in respective `FederatedGitRepository` and or `FederatedKustomization` resources.
- View the events and or logs for `deployments/dispatch-repository-controller` in dispatch namespace in case there are any unexpected errors.
- Enabling the Dispatch repository controller for your project namespace will cause a number of  [related Flux controller components](https://toolkit.fluxcd.io/components/) to be deployed into the namespace. These are necessary for the proper operation of the repository controller and should not be removed.

## View Helm Releases

In addition to viewing the current GitOps Sources, you can also view the current Helm Releases that have been deployed. 

> On the **Continuous Deployment (CD)** page, select the **Helm Releases** button. All of the current Helm Release charts are displayed with their Chart Version and the name of your clusters. In this example _daily_ is the name of the current cluster being displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the **Continuous Deployment (CD)** page, select the **Helm Releases** button. All of the current Helm Release charts are displayed with their Chart Version and the names of the clusters in the Project. In this example _daily_ is the name of the current cluster being displayed.
```
